+++
title = "Release: v0.7 - Improved core library"
+++

This release comes with a lot a small improvements to the core library.

## Merge datastructures

Merging maps or nested data structures is a common problem in programming. The new functions `merge-with` and `deep-merge` solve these problems in Phel.

The first function `merge-with` takes a two-arity function `f` and a unlimited number of hash maps. It will merge these hash maps as in `merge` but in case two maps have the same key it will call `f` with the left and the right value. Example:

```phel
(merge-with + {:a 1 :b 2} {:b 3 :c 4}) # Evaluates to {:a 1 :b 5 :c 4}
```

The second function `deep-merge` will recursively merge nested data structures. Hash maps will be merged as in `merge`, vectors will be concatenated and sets will be united. Example:

```phel
(deep-merge {:a {:b {:c [:d]}}} {:a {:b {:c [:e] :f :g}}} # Evaluates to {:a {:b {:c [:d :e] :f :g}}}
```

## Improved phel\http namespace

The namespace `phel\http` go a little facelift:

* The function `http/uri-from-string` was added. This lets you create a URI struct from a string
* The function `http/response-from-map` was added. This function create a response struct from a hash map.
* The function `http/response-from-string` was added. This function creates a response from a string function.
* The request struct got a new additional field: `attributes`. This field can be used store custom data to enrich a request.
* The function `http/request-from-map` was added. This function create a request struct from a hash map.

## Read, eval and compile

The core library has now some additional function to call parts of the compiler directly in your code.

First, the `read-string` function will parse a string and return a Phel expression.

```phel
(read-string "(+ 1 1)") # Evaluates to '(+ 1 1)
```

Second, the `eval` function let's you evaluate a Phel expression:

```phel
(eval '(+ 1 1)) # Evaluates to 2
```

Finally, the `compile` function returns the compiled PHP code for a give Phel expression:

```phel
(compile '(+ 1 1)) # Evaluates to "(1 + 1);"
```

## Other changes

A few other changes and bug fixes have been done in this version. For a full list of changes have a look at the [Changelog](https://github.com/phel-lang/phel-lang/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md).
